Round 5 — render-host construction and mixed-mode CLR lifetime
Date: 2026-10-04

Result
------
98 executable CIL bodies were read completely and matched to their original
MethodDef records and PE code bytes: 1,953 IL instructions and 4,669 code bytes.
The evidence also decodes 24 original exception clauses, 158 direct MethodDef
caller operands and five initializer arrays. This is a specific static semantic
tranche, not a claim that every runtime behavior is understood.

Two additional IDA entries, DecodePointer at synthetic 0x40F0 and EncodePointer
at 0x4100, are bodyless KERNEL32.dll P/Invoke declarations. Their MethodDef RVAs
are zero. They are documented separately and contribute no executable-body
claims or code-byte counts. The initial capture script was corrected to reject
RVA0 before reading a method header; interpreting PE offset0 as IL would instead
misread the MZ header. The preserved raw IDA byte response is not used as body
evidence for these placeholders.

Original executable SHA256:
9002b2de6a1f91a790bd0673de125d1cf833f7942bfec827cdcf6ba64d5849ed

Every Findings.addr in managed_tools_round5_report.json is a synthetic CIL
address. Header RVAs locate stored IL. Neither is a native call address. Native
VAs explicitly mentioned below belong to the original x64 image at 0x140000000.

1. Remaining GUI construction is a renderer host, not an asset editor
--------------------------------------------------------------------
BaseSimpleForm constructor (CIL0xC010, MethodDef0x06000205) retains an external
AppInterface pointer, sets host state, chooses an initial window size, wires
14 event handlers and creates a WinForms handle. It records a singleton and
loads icon resource101. Its opacity starts at0. Its exception clause is a fault
handler (flags4), so Dispose(true) is exceptional-construction cleanup, not an
ordinary finally that disposes every newly constructed window.

InitializeComponent (CIL0xC640, MethodDef0x0600020D) creates a component container,
Timer and two mouse/render panels. The top-right panel is red and200x50; the
other is blue and fill-docked. The form itself is black with20-pixel padding.
No model loader, texture editor, animation timeline, file picker or asset
conversion operation occurs in either body. This initializer does not enable
the timer or choose its interval. The existing event bodies remain separate
earlier findings, not newly inferred editor features.

Concrete resolution defect:
- The constructor creates32 FVECTOR2 values, each8 bytes, in a local256-byte
  buffer. The original header flags0x300B do not set InitLocals.
- Native FVECTOR2 constructor0x140109DE0 is exactly mov rax,rcx;ret. It initializes
  no fields.
- Native getResolutions0x14011C930 delegates to0x14011C970 with the buffer,
  capacity32 and aspect-ratio filter enabled.
- Enumeration accepts width>=800 and height>=600; when filtering is enabled it
  requires width*9==height*16. It removes duplicate width/height pairs and writes
  float pairs, incrementing the ordinary return count for each vector written.
- The CIL branch uses the SECOND pair at+8/+12 for every returned value>=1.
  If exactly one pair was written, the selected second pair is not initialized
  by the visible code and can yield an invalid or arbitrary initial size.
- The no-result native path recursively enumerates with filtering disabled,
  discards the recursive count and returns1. That recursive call may have
  written multiple pairs, so returned1 alone is not evidence of an unwritten
  second pair. With no eligible modes even without the filter, the same fallback
  has no visible terminating base case.

This is a static defect in the old host. No display configuration was changed,
window constructed or failure reproduced. A modern independent preview tool
should consume an explicitly sized result list and choose only an existing
entry; it should not instantiate this host merely to inspect an asset.

2. CLR startup and shutdown are process-level operations
------------------------------------------------------
The module cctor (CIL0x3AB0) constructs LanguageSupport, runs Initialize, and frees
its GCHandle-backed error-stage string on success or unwind. Initialize increments
the cross-domain count in a constrained region and wraps failures with the stage
that actually failed. A second cleanup failure is preserved separately as
NestedException rather than replacing the first diagnostic silently.

LanguageSupport._Initialize (0x3870) serializes native startup using a fiber-ID
lock, tolerates nested ownership by the same ID and retries other owners after
Sleep(1000). The default domain performs native and per-process initialization;
other domains can ask the default domain to initialize outside this lock. Each
domain also initializes its own table and registers an unload handler.

The original tables differ materially:
  __xi_vt: one zero slot, no managed initializer tokens.
  __xc_mp: 38 slots, 37 nonzero MethodDef tokens stored as QWORDs.
  __xc_ma: eight slots, seven nonzero MethodDef tokens stored as QWORDs.
  __xi: four slots, three native function pointers, int-return initializer ABI.
  __xc: 4,654 slots, 4,653 native function pointers, void-return initializer ABI.

The37 process-level tokens reference32 ATL VARIANT-field initializers, ATL COM
module, ATL window module, managed class-factory release registration and two
scratch-pad initializers. This table classification is an exact token/name
inventory; it does not by itself claim that every ATL target body has been read
in this tranche. The seven per-domain token bodies were read and individually
documented: they clear initialization, uninitialization, domain-kind and four
progress fields.

_initterm_m resolves tokens through ModuleHandle.ResolveMethodHandle and obtains
a runtime function pointer; it does not treat the stored QWORD as a native VA.
By contrast, _initterm_e/_initterm directly invoke native pointers. The native
table inventory is not4,653 new per-function semantic claims.

Default-domain interop obtains real CLR COM interfaces, calls their native
vtable slots and releases the owned COM references. Original __unep fields hold
native thunk VAs0x140579E20 and0x140579E90 for default-domain startup/teardown.
Those thunks cannot be replaced with synthetic CIL addresses.

ModuleUninitializer subscribes the same handler stack to both DomainUnload and
ProcessExit. It enumerates the stack under a monitor, disposes the enumerator
and releases the lock, but neither clears the stack nor catches each handler
exception. LanguageSupport.DomainUnload supplies its own Interlocked once gate
and shared domain-count decrement. Teardown of the last domain includes process
callback cleanup and, only when owned by the module cctor, native _cexit.

3. Exit callbacks: exact ownership and a concrete OOM fallback mismatch
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Exit callback lists begin as256-byte allocations with capacity32 QWORD slots.
Registration encodes callback/table pointers through KERNEL32 functions, holds
a monitor, appends an8-byte callback and updates encoded end/begin. Ordinary
growth doubles the allocation until the added size reaches4096 bytes, then
grows in4096-byte steps. This path's capacity arithmetic matches8-byte slots.

The original EH table for CIL _atexit_helper0x3D70 specifies:
  primary allocation try: IL+0x37 length0x6B;
  fallback catch:         IL+0xA2 length0x42;
  caught type:           System.OutOfMemoryException (TypeRef0x010000A1).

In that fallback, original IL at synthetic0x3E15..0x3E1F computes:
  requestedBytes = int32(capacity*8 + 12)
and IL0x3E4B..0x3E51 then computes:
  capacity = capacity + 4
Thus the byte request grows by12 while the logical table capacity grows by32.
Both constants and8-byte stores are directly present in the original PE bytes.

Example for a full capacity32 table:
  ordinary request: 512 bytes (64 slots), throws OOM;
  fallback request: 268 bytes, succeeds;
  advertised capacity: 36 slots (288 bytes);
  append callback33: offsets256..263, within the requested span;
  append callback34: offsets264..271, four bytes beyond that span.

This proves an allocation-size/capacity mismatch in a conditional error path.
It does not prove that this retail process reaches the fallback, that a specific
allocator grants exactly the requested bytes, or that corruption was observed.
No fault injection or game execution was performed. The IntPtr(int32) conversion
also narrows the byte count, but no claim is made that normal initialization
registers enough callbacks to encounter that separate large-count limit.

Independent static review by pe_inventory reached the same size/control-flow
conclusion and emphasized that allocator rounding can mask the logical overrun.

Both exit routines execute callbacks backwards, mark a callback slot empty
before invoking it, and reread global pointers after each call so newly appended
or reallocated tables can be followed. Process _exit_callback has no finally
around callback/free; an exception can skip table freeing and lock-reference
release. AppDomain _app_exit_callback does free/release in a finally, although
the throwing callback still stops remaining handlers. Neither body clears its
global table fields for arbitrary repeated direct invocation.

The lock wrapper uses a GCHandle for an ordinary Monitor target and an ordinary
int32 reference count. AddRef/RemoveRef are not interlocked. That is a constraint
of the compiler-owned initialization/uninitialization protocol, not evidence
that these helpers are safe standalone concurrent APIs.

4. What this can be used for
---------------------------
This research supports an offline mixed-mode startup map: show the executable
hash, real CIL bodies versus bodyless imports, module/domain initialization
stages, method-token initializer arrays, native initializer arrays, direct call
edges, nested failure text and which cleanup routines own each resource. This
would help explain loader failures or develop independent replacement tools.

It does not justify a new gameplay switch. Reusing the old host means joining
its native AppInterface/GX lifecycle and CLR startup, not just showing a window.
No code or resource should be loaded with Assembly.Load merely to inspect it:
metadata and IL can be parsed from an explicitly selected file without executing
the module cctor, native initializer arrays or unload callbacks.

See managed_tools_round5_contract.txt for a possible offline API and boundaries.

Evidence and checks
-------------------
managed_tools_round5_report.json:98 specific per-body claims, direct callers,
  token/RVA/code-hash anchors and individual limitations.
managed_tools_round5_evidence.json: full fresh IDA disassembly for98 bodies plus
  the two explicitly excluded placeholder entries.
managed_tools_round5_metadata.json: original headers, IL, EH bytes, referenced
  fields, call signatures, strings and class-layout records.
managed_tools_round5_cil_bytes.json: fresh IDA byte reads.
managed_tools_round5_verification.json: equality checks, decoded EH, initializer
  arrays and exact original-byte direct caller operands.
managed_tools_round5_bodyless_imports.json: separate RVA0/PInvoke metadata.
managed_tools_round5_native_resolution.json and _native_enumerate_asm.json:
  Root's complete native disassembly of the resolution chain.
managed_tools_round5_sessions.json: current CIL session readiness and path.

No executable, IDB, product source, game process, UI or save was changed. No
unrelated subsystem is claimed complete by this report.
