Actor/STATUS rebind context — 2026-10-08

Decision
Observe the two outer native entries 4112B0 and 411350 if implementing rebind
tracking. They enclose Release, acquisition and both binding stores, retain
their frames and have ordinary return paths. After acquisition returns, the
Actor slot always receives its result; the STATUS backlink is written only
for a nonnull result. Neither a particular BDX event/callsite nor
the five inner STATUS entries covers this whole interval. No observer is
installed by this research; Actor lifetime and other binding writers remain
separate prerequisites for any compare/write admission.

Registration and ABI
- TrapRoot753490 bank2 points to756B60. Index9, descriptor756BF0, registers
  431A70 with3 operands; index95, descriptor757150, registers431AA0 with2.
  Exact qword scans across the original PE sections find each callback once.
- Both adapters receive RCX=tagged8-byte operand vector. They decode the low
  DWORD of operand0 to p, then decode the DWORD at p+4 to Actor. Operand1's
  low DWORD becomes EDX. They restore their stack and tail-jump the root.
  The third operand of431A70 is popped by the VM but unused by its native body.
- The roots receive RCX=Actor*, EDX=32-bit parameter ID. Their normal paths
  assign Actor+5C0 after acquisition returns; encoded STATUS+268 is written
  only for a nonnull result. The recorded script
  route does not use their incidental native RAX as a semantic result.
- 41B400 opcode group0xA selects bank=opcode>>6 and the next WORD as index.
  It pops descriptor.low16 argument count into a local vector and CALLs the
  callback synchronously. Return flag0x40000000 pushes the callback-modified
  vector[0], not RAX. Both rebind descriptors leave this flag clear.
- Canonical static decode examples:008A 0009 and008A 005F. These are not
  identified instructions from an extracted retail event script.

Thread and callback provenance
The previously evidenced motion-worker path reaches3B5E80 ->3E1840 ->3E1C80
->41B400 synchronously. This dispatcher uses the same bank2 and has no native
Event27-specific trap filter. Conditional interpreter reachability is proved;
an actual shipped Event27 execution of either operation is not. That requires
bytecode selecting the trap and constructing valid operands. Event27 supplies
a directly encoded Actor as its first argument, while these adapters expect
an intermediate structure p containing an encoded Actor at p+4. Those values
must not be equated without tracing the bytecode.

Another native entry into the same interpreter is3E1410: when VM context+64
has a finalizer PC, it executes that PC with the shared trap table before
cleanup. Actual finalizer use of these rebind operations remains unproved.
The interpreter's rdata reference6EF8B0 is chained unwind metadata, not an
additional callback registration.

Each rebind root has exactly one recorded direct code caller, its adapter;
the other direct reference is pdata. Exact root-pointer qword searches find
none. This does not exclude computed, encoded or externally introduced calls.
The trap-bank setter3E1720 writes the supplied bank pointer without a visible
index bound. Its two recorded direct callers26ACC0/26ACE0 clear/replace bank9,
not bank2. The writable table is not thereby proved immutable.

Normal execution and abnormal exits
The24-body normal rebind closure includes both adapters, both roots, direct
calls/tails/conditional transfers and fixed bsearch comparator3EBF20. Its
external boundaries are bsearch, CRT critical-section/event waits and decoded
condition-variable APIs. No ordinary engine fiber switch or longjmp appears
in this bounded closure under those external contracts, including a nonzero
bsearch key and valid CRT parameters. CRT lazy initialization
can wait without a bounded duration. This is not a single-thread assertion,
nor does it exclude entering the root while already running on a task fiber.

All four root/adapter pdata records cover their complete bodies and have
UNWIND version1, flags0. This means no local language handler metadata, not
exception-free execution. Transitive4AD2C0 has termination-handler metadata.
The interpreter has primary plus chained unwind records. Abnormal SEH/C++
paths, external DLL implementations and modified code are outside the normal
closure. A future wrapper must preserve native ABI/unwind behavior and fault
its observation on abnormal exit instead of publishing a completed binding.
Tracker locks must be released before invoking native code or CRT waits.

Argument and resource limits
The trap branch has no visible bank/index/count/operand-underflow guard before
its reads and indirect call. The adapters check neither operand tags nor the
two decoded pointers. Selected invalid opcode cases return status5; that is
not a general malformed-trap error path. A root observer starts after the
adapter's decoding and cannot guard an earlier adapter fault.
Enemy lookup sign-extends the ID into the bsearch key at 3EBF44. ID0 is thus
a null key and may invoke the CRT invalid-parameter handler, whose behavior
is outside the normal closure. The ID0x45 retry is reached only if the first
bsearch returns null; a failed fallback is passed onward. Valid resources remain required. The enemy initializer
also writes the coefficient bytes including General within the outer rebind
interval on allocation paths. These observations justify resource/argument
validation work before using arbitrary VM traps for trainer commands.

Verification and scope
43 complete bodies,3,053 recorded instructions,12,723 original body bytes.
The interpreter has231 trailing bytes of padding/switch data, retained and
checked;4AD2C0 has one separately decoded4-byte NOP gap. Fresh interpreter ASM
has4 pages; pseudocode has300+300+295=895 lines. Its tool marks every partial
page truncated=true, including the last; exact counts and finished cursors
establish the joined export. Original page flags are preserved.
All recorded xrefs/imports/exact-pointer searches are complete.368 imports
match original PE address/module/name or ordinal records; IDA's labels for
ordinal imports are identified separately. Imported older evidence is SHA-bound.
18 limited claims on17 function addresses are coverage-compatible from this
report; bodies and bytes are in evidence.json. No all-functions claim.

Reproduce:
py -3 -B docs/research/actor-rebind-context-20261008/verify.py --check

Next work: identify actual event27/finalizer BDX trap use and operand0 origin;
close other Actor creation/rebind/retirement paths and identity; audit generic
VM argument validation separately; retain conservative failure on unknown
exception paths. No game/UI operation, IDB mutation/closure, product change,
central coverage edit or runner edit occurred.

Official references used for external-format/contracts only:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/exception-handling-x64?view=msvc-170
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/c-runtime-library/reference/bsearch?view=msvc-170
