KH2 BDX CATALOG: MISSION, GUMMI, COLLISION AND VOICE

This update keeps all 1063 descriptor records and all numeric fields. It adds
81 behavioral descriptions: 30 for Bank3's Gummi object family and 51 for
Bank4's mission functions. Two existing descriptions gain specific findings:
1:367's radius and shared-filter effects, and the selected BTLNPC branch of
1:262's virtual operation. The latter remains named as a generic descriptor
dispatch because another descriptor may implement a different operation.

There are 239 annotated records and 15 explicit NULL holes. The other 980 rows
are unchanged byte-for-byte as structured data; the existing 4:21 annotation
is preserved. A captured table extent does not establish a native bounds check.

Product behavior

The dark offline BDX inspector shows the new names, descriptions, prerequisites
and evidence references in its existing list, search and detail controls.
No BDX bytes are rewritten and no script or new native operation is executed.
The catalog class, parser, native bridge and UI implementation are unchanged.
The application version and existing catalog-count expectation are updated.

These findings can support later mission editors, Gummi object previews and
collision inspection. They do not by themselves establish safe live spawning,
mission completion, counter callbacks, geometry queries or audio playback.
Each underlying study records its remaining ownership and runtime boundaries.

Drive Form equipment behavior remains the existing validated fallback. A bad
offhand slot for Final, Valor or Master is filled from a valid primary Keyblade
after form-specific model, MSET and skeleton checks, with revalidation after
Revert. Successful initialization can persist through normal game saving.
There is no new native Drive patch or new live-game validation in this update.

Reproduction

py -3 -B docs/research/bdx-mission-gummi-implementation-20261008/build_catalog.py --check
powershell -File docs/research/bdx-mission-gummi-implementation-20261008/run-probe.ps1 -Check
py -3 -B docs/research/bdx-mission-gummi-implementation-20261008/verify.py --check

The builder verifies original descriptors, every upstream manifest, unchanged
records and exact annotation transfer. The compiled probe builds the actual
unchanged catalog class with the new embedded JSON and checks all stored rows,
search/details text and unknown/NULL/context-dependent boundaries.

Core and offscreen UI receipts are included. They use synthetic data and create
no visible window. The 780-pixel list and query-detail renders were visually
reviewed: dark backgrounds, readable labels, scrollable long details and no
overlapping controls. Full package validation is recorded in the release's
Validation directory. Static evidence and synthetic tests do not establish
live-game behavior or complete understanding of the executable.
