KH2 TRAINER — SOURCE BUILD

Requirements: Windows x64, .NET SDK 8 or newer, Python 3, and Visual Studio
Build Tools with the C++ desktop workload and a Windows SDK. setup-toolchain.cmd
discovers the installed MSVC toolchain with vswhere. No NuGet test framework
or third-party application libraries are required.

From PowerShell in the extracted source workspace:
  .\trainer\build.ps1

The default build compiles the native DLL, assembles the reviewed catalogs,
runs isolated native and C# tests, and publishes a self-contained x64 EXE.
Use -FrameworkDependent only when the destination already has .NET 8 Desktop
Runtime installed. The output path is printed when packaging finishes.

Game-specific research catalogs and test sources live in work/trainer beside
the trainer directory. Preserve this directory layout in source distributions.
The embedded native bridge and JSON catalogs must be rebuilt together.

The test harnesses use synthetic memory and fixtures. They do not run the
game's functions or replace visual and gameplay validation. No test silently
modifies the original game executable, mod configurations or real save files.

Protocol version 3 carries 512 value/capability slots and stamps each command with the host's GetTickCount-compatible
timestamp. Unstarted commands expire after eight seconds. The five-second
host timeout uses the timestamp's age, including after game suspension.

The bridge remains loaded until the game exits. Restart the game before
testing a different trainer build. The launcher rejects a mismatched resident
bridge instead of mixing old native code with a new feature catalog.

Optional read-only retail asset checks:
Pass -AssetGameDirectory '<KH collection installation folder>' to build.ps1.
This compares decoded package payloads with an existing OpenKh extracted corpus.
Without this parameter, the portable synthetic Core tests still run.
The build also renders the feature-card template, Asset Explorer, asset
fingerprints and Game Messages offscreen using synthetic data. It checks their
bindings, navigation and dark backgrounds. No game or visible window is opened.
Sources, nested research evidence and validation reports are included.
